
---
wrapper_template: "templates/docs/markdown.html"
markdown_includes:
  nav: "kubernetes/docs/shared/_side-navigation.md"
context:
  title: "1.29 Release notes"
  description: Release notes for Charmed Kubernetes
keywords: kubernetes, release, notes
tags: [news]
sidebar: k8smain-sidebar
permalink: 1.29/release-notes.html
layout: [base, ubuntu-com]
toc: False
---
# 1.29

### February 23, 2024 - `charmed-kubernetes --channel 1.29/stable`

The release bundle can also be [downloaded here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/charmed-kubernetes/bundle/main/releases/1.29/bundle.yaml).

## What's new

### Charmed Operator Framework (Ops)

We're pleased to announce the completion of the Charmed Kubernetes refactor that began
last year. Charms have moved from the `reactive` and `pod-spec` styles to the `ops`
framework in order to enable access to common charm libraries, gain better Juju support,
and provide a more consistent charming experience for community engagement.

### Out of the box monitoring enhancements

The Canonical Observability Stack (COS) gathers, processes, visualises and alerts on
telemetry signals generated by workloads running both within and outside of Juju. COS
provides an out of the box observability suite relying on the best-in-class open-source
observability tools.

This release expands our COS integration so that it includes rich monitoring for the
control plane and worker node components of Charmed Kubernetes.

### NVIDIA GPU Operator

The new [nvidia-gpu-operator][] charm simplifies the management of NVIDIA GPU resources
in a Kubernetes cluster. See the [updated documentation][gpu-workers] for details on
deploying Charmed Kubernetes with GPU workers.

### LXD deployment

Updated recommendations for deploying Charmed Kubernetes in a LXD environment are now
available. See the [local install documentation][install-local] for details.

### Manual cloud deployment

Guidelines for deploying Charmed Kubernetes to pre-existing machines are now available.
See the [manual cloud documentation][install-existing] for details.

### Container networking enhancements

#### Kube-OVN 1.12

Charmed Kubernetes continues its commitment to advanced container networking with
support for the Kube-OVN CNI. This release includes a Kube-OVN upgrade to v1.12. You can
find more information about features and fixes in the upstream release notes.

#### Tigera Calico Enterprise

The `calico-enterprise` charm debuts as a new container networking option for Charmed
Kubernetes in this release. This charm brings advanced Calico networking/network policy
support and is offered as an alternative to the default Calico CNI.

## Fixes

All bug fixes and other feature updates in this release can be found at
[the launchpad milestone page for 1.29](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.29).

## Known Issues

A list of known bugs scheduled to be fixed in the first maintenance release can be found
on the [1.29+ck1 milestone page](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.29+ck1).

## Deprecations and API changes

- Upstream

For details of other deprecation notices and API changes for Kubernetes 1.29, please see the
relevant sections of the [upstream release notes][upstream-changelog-1.29].

[upstream-changelog-1.29]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.29.md#deprecation

<!-- AUTOGENERATED RELEASE 1.29 ABOVE -->


<!--LINKS-->

[rel]: /kubernetes/docs/release-notes
[nvidia-gpu-operator]: https://charmhub.io/nvidia-gpu-operator?channel=1.29/stable
[gpu-workers]: /kubernetes/docs/gpu-workers
[install-local]: /kubernetes/docs/install-local
[install-existing]: /kubernetes/docs/install-existing
