---
wrapper_template: "kubernetes/docs/base_docs.html"
markdown_includes:
  nav: "kubernetes/docs/shared/_side-navigation.md"
context:
  title: "etcd charm"
  description: Etcd Charm reference
keywords: etcd, charm, config
tags: [reference]
sidebar: k8smain-sidebar
permalink: charm-etcd.html
layout: [base, ubuntu-com]
toc: False
---

The etcd charm xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx x xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxx
xxx xxxxxx xx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxx

## Charm configuration options

<!-- CONFIG STARTS -->
<!--AUTOGENERATED CONFIG TEXT - DO NOT EDIT -->
### bind_to_all_interfaces

**Type**: boolean &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: True

The service binds to all network interfaces if true. The service binds
only to the first found bind address of each relation if false

---

### channel

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: 2.3/stable

The snap channel to install from
---

### management_port

**Type**: int &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: 2380

Port to run the ETCD Management service
---

### nagios_context

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: juju

Used by the nrpe subordinate charms.
A string that will be prepended to instance name to set the host name
in nagios. So for instance the hostname would be something like:
    juju-myservice-0
If you're running multiple environments with the same services in them
this allows you to differentiate between them.

---

### nagios_servicegroups

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

A comma-separated list of nagios servicegroups.
If left empty, the nagios_context will be used as the servicegroup

---

### port

**Type**: int &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: 2379

Port to run the public ETCD service on
---

### snap_proxy

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

DEPRECATED. Use snap-http-proxy and snap-https-proxy model configuration settings. HTTP/HTTPS web proxy for Snappy to use when accessing the snap store.

---

### snap_proxy_url

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

DEPRECATED. Use snap-store-proxy model configuration setting. The address of a Snap Store Proxy to use for snaps e.g. http://snap-proxy.example.com

---

### snapd_refresh

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: max

How often snapd handles updates for installed snaps. Set to an empty
string to check 4x per day. Set to "max" (the default) to check once per
month based on the charm deployment date. You may also set a custom
string as described in the 'refresh.timer' section here:
  https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/system-options/87

---


<!-- CONFIG ENDS -->



## Etcd Charm Actions


## Additional topics xxx xxx
