---
wrapper_template: "kubernetes/docs/base_docs.html"
markdown_includes:
  nav: "kubernetes/docs/shared/_side-navigation.md"
context:
  title: "kubeapi-load-balancer charm"
  description: Etcd Charm reference
keywords: kubeapi-load-balancer, charm, config
tags: [reference]
sidebar: k8smain-sidebar
permalink: charm-kubeapi-load-balancer.html
layout: [base, ubuntu-com]
toc: False
---

The `kubeapi-load-balancer` charm xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx x xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxx xx xxx xxxx xxx xxxxxx xx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxx

## kubeapi-load-balancer charm configuration

<!-- CONFIG STARTS -->
<!--AUTOGENERATED CONFIG TEXT - DO NOT EDIT -->
### extra_packages

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

Space separated list of extra deb packages to install.

---

### extra_sans

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

Space-separated list of extra SAN entries to add to the x509 certificate
created for the load balancers.

---

### ha-cluster-dns

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

DNS entry to use with the HA Cluster subordinate charm.
Mutually exclusive with ha-cluster-vip.

---

### ha-cluster-vip

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

Virtual IP for the charm to use with the HA Cluster subordinate charm
Mutually exclusive with ha-cluster-dns. Multiple virtual IPs are
separated by spaces.

---

### host

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: 127.0.0.1

listen address
---

### install_keys

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

List of signing keys for install_sources package sources, per charmhelpers standard format (a yaml list of strings encoded as a string). The keys should be the full ASCII armoured GPG public keys. While GPG key ids are also supported and looked up on a keyserver, operators should be aware that this mechanism is insecure. null can be used if a standard package signing key is used that will already be installed on the machine, and for PPA sources where the package signing key is securely retrieved from Launchpad.

---

### install_sources

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

List of extra apt sources, per charm-helpers standard format (a yaml list of strings encoded as a string). Each source may be either a line that can be added directly to sources.list(5), or in the form ppa:<user>/<ppa-name> for adding Personal Package Archives, or a distribution component to enable.

---

### loadbalancer-ips

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

Space seperated list of IP addresses of loadbalancers in front of control plane.
A common case for this is virtual IP addresses that are floated in front of the
kubeapi-load-balancer charm. The workers will alternate IP addresses from this
list to distribute load. If you have 2 IPs and 4 workers, each IP will be used
by 2 workers.

---

### nagios_context

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: juju

Used by the nrpe subordinate charms.
A string that will be prepended to instance name to set the host name
in nagios. So for instance the hostname would be something like:
    juju-myservice-0
If you're running multiple environments with the same services in them
this allows you to differentiate between them.

---

### nagios_servicegroups

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**:

A comma-separated list of nagios servicegroups.
If left empty, the nagios_context will be used as the servicegroup

---

### package_status

**Type**: string &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: install

The status of service-affecting packages will be set to this value in the dpkg database. Valid values are "install" and "hold".

---

### port

**Type**: int &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: 443

The port to run the loadbalancer
---

### proxy_read_timeout

**Type**: int &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Default**: 600

Timeout in seconds for reading a response from proxy server.
---


<!-- CONFIG ENDS -->



## kubeapi-load-balancer charm actions


## <Specific topics, etc>
